Editorialize main schema intro (#326)
quicwg/qlog: draft-ietf-quic-qlog-main-schema.md

--- abstract

This document defines qlog, an extensible high-level schema for a standardized
logging format. It allows easy sharing of data, benefitting common debug and
analysis methods and tooling. The high-level schema is independent of protocol;
separate documents extend qlog for protocol-specific data. The schema is also
independent of serialization format, allowing logs to be represented in many
ways such as JSON, CSV, or protobuf.

--- note_Note_to_Readers

> Note to RFC editor: Please remove this section before publication.

Feedback and discussion are welcome at
[https://github.com/quicwg/qlog](https://github.com/quicwg/qlog). Readers are
advised to refer to the "editor's draft" at that URL for an up-to-date version
of this document.

Concrete examples of integrations of this schema in
various programming languages can be found at
[https://github.com/quiclog/qlog/](https://github.com/quiclog/qlog/).

--- middle

# Introduction

Endpoint logging is a useful strategy for capturing and understanding how
applications using network protocols are behaving, particularly where protocols
have an encrypted wire image that restricts observers' ability to see what is
happening.

> Many applications implement logging but the format tends to be custom rather than
> standardized. This has an effect on the tools and methods that are used to
> analyze the logs, for example to perform root cause analysis of an
> interoperability failure between distinct implementations. A lack of a common
> format impedes the development of common tooling that can be used by all parties
> that have access to logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many applications implement logging using a custom logging format.
This has an effect on the tools and methods that are used to
analyze the logs, for example to perform root cause analysis of an
interoperability failure between distinct implementations. A lack of a common
format impedes the development of common tooling that can be used by all parties
that have access to logs.
```

--- abstract

This document defines qlog, an extensible high-level schema for a standardized
logging format. It allows easy sharing of data, benefitting common debug and
analysis methods and tooling. The high-level schema is independent of protocol;
separate documents extend qlog for protocol-specific data. The schema is also
independent of serialization format, allowing logs to be represented in many
ways such as JSON, CSV, or protobuf.

--- note_Note_to_Readers

> Note to RFC editor: Please remove this section before publication.

Feedback and discussion are welcome at
[https://github.com/quicwg/qlog](https://github.com/quicwg/qlog). Readers are
advised to refer to the "editor's draft" at that URL for an up-to-date version
of this document.

Concrete examples of integrations of this schema in
various programming languages can be found at
[https://github.com/quiclog/qlog/](https://github.com/quiclog/qlog/).

--- middle

# Introduction

Endpoint logging is a useful strategy for capturing and understanding how
applications using network protocols are behaving, particularly where protocols

> have an encrypted wire image that restricts observers ability to see what is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
have an encrypted wire image that restricts observers' ability to see what is
```

happening.

Many applications implement logging but the format tends to be custom rather than

> standardized. This has a effect on the tools and methods that are used to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
standardized. This has an effect on the tools and methods that are used to
```

analyze the logs, for example to perform root cause analysis of an
interoperability failure between distinct implementations. A lack of a common
format impedes the development of common tooling that can be used by all parties
that have access to logs.

This document defines qlog, an extensible high-level schema and harness that

> provides a shareable, aggregatable and structured logging format intended to be
> more usable. This high-level schema is independent of protocol, with logging

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
provides a shareable, aggregatable and structured logging format. This high-level schema is independent of protocol, with logging
```

"more usable" is vague... more usable than what? I propose just cutting this

Author: me too!

# Serializing qlog {#concrete-formats}

This document and other related qlog schema definitions are intentionally
independent of serialization format. This means that implementers themselves can
choose how to represent and serialize qlog data practically on disk or on the

> wire. Some examples of possible formats are JSON, CBOR, CSV, protocol buffers,
> flatbuffers, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
wire. Some examples of possible formats are JSON, CBOR, CSV, protobuf,
flatbuffers, etc.
```

Consistency with abstract
